Tyler/policy blog (#13964)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/enforcing-policy-as-code-on-discovered-resources-with-pulumi/index.md

---
title: Enforcing Policy as Code on Discovered Resources with Pulumi  
date: 2025-02-04  
meta_desc: "Learn how Pulumi's new feature enables policy as code on discovered resources, including how to set it up and view policy violations."  
meta_image: crossguard-meta.png  
authors:  
   - tyler-dunkel
tags:  
   - "Policy as Code"  
   - "Pulumi"  
   - "CrossGuard"  
   - "AWS"  
   - "Azure" 
   - "OCI"
   - "K8s" 
---

> In this post, we’re introducing a powerful new feature in Pulumi that allows you to run policy as code (PaC) on discovered resources. Previously, PaC was limited to infrastructure as code (IaC) resources. Now, you can extend policy enforcement to resources discovered in your cloud environment. This new feature allows you to ensure that your cloud resources remain compliant with your policies, even if they have been provisioned outside of Pulumi.

Reviewer: I'd try to tie in some of the business value statements for insights; such as "In this post, we're introducing a powerful new capability in Pulumi Insights that extends policy as code (PaC) beyond infrastructure as code to automatically govern all cloud resources in your environment. By unifying policy enforcement across both IaC and discovered resources, you can now write policies once and apply them universally - dramatically simplifying how organizations maintain security and compliance standards at scale."

You can read more about CrossGuard in Pulumi’s documentation [here](/docs/iac/using-pulumi/crossguard/).

---

### Accounts and Insights

Before diving into how you can configure PaC for discovered resources, it's important to understand how Pulumi discovers resources within your cloud environment regardless of how they were created. Pulumi Insights provides visibility into the state of your cloud resources by using **read only** access to your cloud environment in order to catalog the resources it contains. This is done through the **Accounts** page in Pulumi, which shows all the accounts for discovering resources you have added to your Pulumi organization. On this page, you can add new accounts which you can then add to policy groups to begin evaluating all of your cloud resources using your organization's policy as code.

![Accounts Page](accounts-list-page.png)

> After you have added an account, you can integrate it with one or multiple Policy Groups to enforce the policies within those groups across your stacks and insights accounts. Once linked to a Policy Group, your resources will be automatically evaluated against the policies you define whenever those policies or resources are updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have added an account, you can connect it with one or multiple Policy Groups to enforce the policies within those groups across your stacks and insights accounts. Once linked to a Policy Group, your resources will be automatically evaluated against the policies you define whenever those policies or resources are updated.
```

---

### Setting Up Policy Groups for Discovered Resources

> To apply policies to your discovered resources, you first need to set up a **Policy Group**. A Policy Group in Pulumi enforces policies across a group of stacks and accounts in your organization. Each Policy Group can contain multiple of each stacks and acconts, and you can assign multiple Policy Packs to these groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To apply policies to your discovered resources, you first need to set up a **Policy Group**. A Policy Group in Pulumi enforces policies across a group of stacks and accounts in your organization. Each Policy Group can contain multiple stacks and accounts, and you can assign multiple Policy Packs to these groups.
```

> Here’s a screenshot of the **Policy Group** configuration page, where you can create and manage policy groups:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here’s an example of the **Policy Group** configuration page, where you can create and manage policy groups:
```

![Policy Group Configuration](policy-group-config.png)

Once your Policy Group is set up, you can add Insights Accounts to the group, which will ensure that the resources in those accounts are evaluated against the policies in the group.

![Policy Group Configuration](policy-group-add-account.png)

---

### Running Policies on Discovered Resources

> Now that your Policy Group is set up, you can start running policies against your discovered resources. Currently Pulumi Insights supports running **resource** policies against all resource types supported by Pulumi Insights. Currently, **stack policies** are not supported. Pulumi Insights will evaluate each resource against the policies defined in your Policy Pack. If the resources violate any of the defined policies, those violations will show up on the **Policy Violations** page, which gives you a detailed view of any non-compliant resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that your Policy Group is set up, you can start running policies against your discovered resources. Currently, Pulumi Insights supports running **resource** policies against all resource types supported by Pulumi Insights. Currently, **stack policies** are not supported. Pulumi Insights will evaluate each resource against the policies defined in your Policy Pack. If the resources violate any of the defined policies, those violations will show up on the **Policy Violations** page, which gives you a detailed view of any non-compliant resources.
```

> Now that your Policy Group is set up, you can start running policies against your discovered resources. Currently Pulumi Insights supports running **resource** policies against all resource types supported by Pulumi Insights. Currently, **stack policies** are not supported. Pulumi Insights will evaluate each resource against the policies defined in your Policy Pack. If the resources violate any of the defined policies, those violations will show up on the **Policy Violations** page, which gives you a detailed view of any non-compliant resources.

Reviewer: Would it be better to say "with stack policies coming soon" ?

Author: mmm they arent on the roadmap right now but I suppose so

![Policy Violations](policy-violations-page.png)

Each violation includes details about the resource and the reason for the violation, helping you quickly identify and address issues.

---

### Key Takeaways

> With Pulumi’s new PaC over discovered resources feature, you can now apply the same policies to both IaC and discovered resources across your cloud environment. This enables you to write a policy once and have it apply across all of your cloud resources. The result being a consistent, compliant infrastructure no matter how resources are provisioned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Pulumi’s new Policy as Code (PaC) feature, you can now enforce the same policies on both Infrastructure as Code (IaC) and discovered resources throughout your cloud environment. This enables you to write a policy once and have it apply across all of your cloud resources. The result being a consistent, compliant infrastructure no matter how resources are provisioned.
```

> - **Set up Policy Groups** to enforce policies across stacks and accounts.

Author: can you give me an example?

> - **Set up Policy Groups** to enforce policies across stacks and accounts.

Reviewer: How about "To begin securing your cloud infrastructure, here are the steps to take:" then the bullet points

- **Link Insights Accounts** to your Policy Groups.
- **View violations** on the Policy Violations page and take action to resolve them.

This new capability is available for AWS, Azure, OCI, and Kubernetes. Stay tuned for more updates on policy enforcement and discover how you can leverage Pulumi for cloud security and compliance.

> 

Reviewer: I'd end with a CTA to give Insights a try: perhaps

"Try it yourself: Start enforcing policies across your discovered resources in minutes with Pulumi Insights. Check out our [getting started guide](docs/insights/get-started/) to begin securing your entire cloud environment with policy as code.

You can read more about CrossGuard in Pulumi’s documentation [here](/docs/iac/using-pulumi/crossguard/).

---

### Accounts and Insights

Before diving into how you can configure PaC for discovered resources, it's important to understand how Pulumi discovers resources within your cloud environment regardless of how they were created. Pulumi Insights provides visibility into the state of your cloud resources by using **read only** access to your cloud environment in order to catalog the resources it contains. This is done through the **Accounts** page in Pulumi, which shows all the accounts for discovering resources you have added to your Pulumi organization. On this page, you can add new accounts which you can then add to policy groups to begin evaluating all of your cloud resources using your organization's policy as code.

![Accounts Page](accounts-list-page.png)

> After you have added an account, you can connect it with one or multiple Policy Groups to enforce the policies within those groups across your stacks and insights accounts. Once linked to a Policy Group, your resources will be automatically evaluated against the policies you define whenever those policies or resources are updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have added an account, you can connect it with one or multiple Policy Groups to enforce the policies within those groups across your stacks and Insights accounts. Once linked to a Policy Group, your resources will be automatically evaluated against the policies you define whenever those policies or resources are updated.
```
